Update SL skill to include old spec too (#47)
dbt-labs/dbt-agent-skills: skills/building-dbt-semantic-layer/SKILL.md

3. Suggest dimensions based on column types and names
4. Ask what metrics the user wants to define

> Both paths converge on the spec-specific implementation workflow.

Author: ```suggestion
Both paths converge on the same implementation workflow.
```

### Cumulative Metrics

Aggregate a metric over a running window or grain-to-date period. Requires a [time spine](references/time-spine.md). Use for running totals, trailing windows (e.g., 7-day rolling average), or period-to-date (MTD, YTD).

Note: `window` and `grain_to_date` cannot be used together on the same cumulative metric.

### Ratio Metrics

Create a ratio between two metrics (numerator / denominator). Use for conversion rates, percentages, and proportions. Both numerator and denominator can have optional filters.

### Conversion Metrics

Measure how often one event leads to another for a specific entity within a time window. Use for funnel analysis (e.g., visit-to-purchase conversion rate). Supports `constant_properties` to ensure the same dimension value across both events.

## Filtering Metrics

Filters can be added to simple metrics or metric inputs to advanced metrics. Use Jinja template syntax:

> [!NOTE]
> Open question for code review: Confirm that the Jinja filter syntax is identical across both specs.

```

> filter: |

Author: Is filter syntax identical across specs?

  {{ Entity('entity_name') }} = 'value'

filter: |
  {{ Dimension('primary_entity__dimension_name') }} > 100

filter: |
  {{ TimeDimension('time_dimension', 'granularity') }} > '2026-01-01'

filter: |
  {{ Metric('metric_name', group_by=['entity_name']) }} > 100
```

## Validation

After writing YAML, validate in two stages:

1. **Parse Validation**: Run `dbt parse` to confirm YAML syntax and references
2. **Semantic Layer Validation**:
   - `dbt sl validate` (dbt Cloud CLI)
   - `mf validate-configs` (MetricFlow CLI)

> [!NOTE]

> > Open question for code review: Confirm these validation commands are correct for both specs.

Author: ```suggestion
```
